Improve the clarity of the Iceberg data connector (#1106)
spiceai/docs: website/docs/components/catalogs/iceberg.md

For connecting to a single Iceberg table, see the [Iceberg Data Connector documentation](/docs/components/data-connectors/iceberg.md). For AWS Glue-based catalogs, see the [AWS Glue Catalog Connector documentation](/docs/components/catalogs/glue.md).

Iceberg catalogs can be of several types:

- **Iceberg REST Catalog**: The most common and recommended approach. REST Catalogs expose Iceberg tables over HTTP(S) endpoints and are compatible with most managed Iceberg services and cloud providers.
- **AWS Glue Catalog**: Integrates with AWS Glue as a catalog provider, supporting Iceberg tables stored in S3. This is the preferred method for AWS environments.
- **Hadoop-style Catalogs**: Use file-based storage (e.g., `file://`, `s3://`, `s3a://`) to manage table metadata. This approach is less common and typically used for local development or legacy deployments.

> > **Note:** For production and cloud environments, REST and AWS Glue catalogs are recommended. Hadoop-style catalogs are supported but less common and not recommended for most new deployments.

Reviewer: Use a warning format similar to the data connector?

  - data-connectors
---

The Iceberg Catalog Connector helps connect Spice to an [Apache Iceberg](https://iceberg.apache.org/) catalog, making Iceberg tables and schemas available for federated SQL queries. Every Iceberg table must be registered in a catalog, which manages table metadata and access. Using a catalog connector is the recommended approach for working with multiple Iceberg datasets, as it helps organize tables and schemas efficiently and mirrors the structure of the source catalog provider.

For connecting to a single Iceberg table, see the [Iceberg Data Connector documentation](/docs/components/data-connectors/iceberg.md). For AWS Glue-based catalogs, see the [AWS Glue Catalog Connector documentation](/docs/components/catalogs/glue.md).

Iceberg catalogs can be of several types:

> - **Iceberg REST Catalog**: The most common and recommended approach. REST Catalogs expose Iceberg tables over HTTP(S) endpoints and are compatible with most managed Iceberg services and cloud providers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Iceberg REST Catalog**: The most common and recommended approach. REST Catalogs expose Iceberg table metadata over HTTP(S) endpoints and are compatible with most managed Iceberg services and cloud providers.
```

The tables themselves are read from object store - clarify that this is just the metadata

## `from`

The `from` field specifies the catalog provider. For Iceberg, use `iceberg:<namespace_path>`, where `namespace_path` is the URL to the Iceberg namespace in the catalog provider. The format is `http[s]://<iceberg_catalog_host>/v1/{prefix}/namespaces/<namespace_name>`.

> For AWS Glue catalogs, the URL format is `https://glue.<region>.amazonaws.com/iceberg/v1/catalogs/<account_id>/namespaces`, where `<account_id>` is your AWS account ID. See the [AWS Glue Catalog Connector documentation](/docs/components/catalogs/glue.md) for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For AWS Glue catalogs, the URL format is `https://glue.<region>.amazonaws.com/iceberg/v1/catalogs/<account_id>/namespaces`, where `<account_id>` is the AWS account ID. While possible to connect to Iceberg tables hosted by Glue using this generic connector, it is recommended to instead use the [AWS Glue Catalog Connector](/docs/components/catalogs/glue.md) for connecting to Iceberg tables managed by Glue for a better experience.
```

| `iceberg_s3_role_arn`          | The Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the role to assume. If provided instead of iceberg_s3_access_key_id and iceberg_s3_secret_access_key, temporary credentials will be fetched by assuming this role. |
| `iceberg_s3_connect_timeout`   | Configure socket connection timeout, in seconds (default: `60`).                                                                                                                                     |

> The Iceberg Catalog Connector supports both REST Catalog and Hadoop-style Catalog endpoints. Hadoop-style endpoints use `file://`, `s3://`, or `s3a://` URLs to specify the warehouse path for the catalog. This approach is typically used for local development or legacy deployments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Iceberg Catalog Connector supports both REST and Hadoop-style Catalogs. In both cases, the warehouse path (for example, s3://bucket/warehouse/) specifies the object store location where tables are physically stored. With a Hadoop-style Catalog, the metadata is resolved directly from the filesystem using the Hadoop convention (by reading a `version-hint.txt`), rather than through a catalog service. The warehouse path itself does not change between using a REST Catalog and a Hadoop-style Catalog—only how the metadata is discovered and managed differs. The warehouse path is discovered automatically from the catalog service, but must be explicitly specified when using Hadoop-style Iceberg tables. Hadoop-style catalogs are most commonly used for local development or legacy deployments.
```
